0:0 
Greetings Earthlings.
I want to share this fun project I made over the festive period: how to control a strip of programable LEDs with your voice using the ChatGPT API.
The basic idea is this:

---- show xmasTwinkleDuino.c
We begin with a short example script to generate some light patterns for an Arduino.
This is the C code for this example.
You can see it uses the fast-LED library.
Sets the output pin on the Arduino.
etc
This pattern is loaded onto the Arduno by default as we can see on the LED strip on my head.
And we modify the pattern using a spoken voice prompt. 
the voice prompt adjusts the LED light pattern, such as "make the lights less Christmassy".
This voice prompt is converted to text using OpenAI's Whisper Model. 
-- This means we send the recorded audio file to Open AI's Audio API.
-nd a second or so later we get the text back.

We then generate a ChatGPT text prompt. 
By combining the original example Arduino code with the new text prompt.
We add some text in between so that the prompt reads something like:
Here is some code for generating xxx
And we append the voice prompt.

And we send this to the ChatGPT API.
The response hopefully contains some new Arduino C code to generate a new light pattern for the programable LED strip.
We parse this respose for valid C code, 
and program the Arduino with this new code. 
We use the Arduino command-line-interface to do this.

Besides the Arduino C code, I wrote this project in Golang. 
this is my favourite language for projects using very different software and hardware systems.
I use it in my Rasperberry pi magic wand project that has many different hardware modules, 
such as GPS, accelerometer, and an arduino to control a programmable LED.
It allows for concurrency between these modules.
It is also extremely fast, which I like for my audio and AI projects.
It is extremely robust.
And it looks nice.
So, go-golang!

It works on a windows OS using the ancient winmm.dll  to record audio, which saved me installing the coreaudio library.




Et voila!



Some things I learnt:
ChatGPT4 is generally better than ChatGPT 3.5 Turbo-- for instance, 3.5 got the colours of xxx flag wrong.
But: ChatGPT4 did once produce some invalid code (once in about 50).- it created a function that was not in the fastLED library.
The cost of using the OpenAI API can add up: cost about 1 cent a pop, including both Whisper and ChatGPT 4.
The time from voice prompt to lights is about xx minutes.


Thanks to my excellent friends:
Nimrod Gileadi- for the idea of including some source code in the prompt.
Andrew Seigner - for help with the Golang.




